What is a data structure.
A data structure is a collection of values algorithms are the steps or processes we put into place to
manipulate these collection of values.
It's what allows us to write programs a person who knows how data structures and algorithms work and
how to use them can write programs great programs.
The beauty is that these are timeless no matter what programming language you use whether you prefer
one library over the other whether you write code in angular or react in the front end development world
or you're a game developer.
Underneath it all it's all data structures and algorithms.
If you understand these then you can really easily adapt and tackle all sorts of technical problems.
It is why companies like Facebook Amazon Netflix Google ask questions specific to Data Structures and
Algorithms because although it may be important to know the latest and greatest javascript syntax or
maybe the latest and greatest library those things change if you know the fundamentals so then they
can throw you any problem any situation and you're able to make the right decision.
This knowledge is extremely valuable.
The longer you are in the field the more and more you realize that you need these fundamental principles
of data structures and algorithms in order to be a great developer or engineer.
So let's get started with that over the next few sections.
We have a long way to go to get familiar with data structures and algorithms so you can write great
programs.
Let's get started.